---
layout: post
title: "Week 7 : Contributing as a group"
---

Starting to contribute to open source project as a group is a fun and exciting task, but deciding what project is work on is often the hardest part. All of us have different experience with different languages. To figure out which project to work on, we have all decided to have a meeting and write down all the projects that came to our mind. After spending about 15 to 20 minutes we have started crossing out the projects with not many issues or projects without a `good-first-issues` tag. <!--more-->

This led to eliminating near half of the projects. After which we have decided to eliminate projects that requires a previous domain knowledge about for example quantum physics. This led to us short listing about 5 projects at the end. Choosing between these 5 took awhile as we wanted to see which one would be best for all of us. We ended the meeting with the 5 short listed project and decided to go home and think more in detailed about each of the project along with trying to set it up. Over the weekend we all tried the projects and ended up deciding to work on [oppia](https://github.com/oppia/oppia) due its documentation for new comers and also this project covered a wide variety of languages. 

Our group did not hit any obstacle. I think all of our communications were really good and overall my team is very supportive. We have all listened to each others thoughts and discussed every idea as a group. Decision making in this case did not take much time as though the encouragement of discussions and weighing in the pros and cons we have easily decided on a project to work on. 