---
layout: post
title: "Week 12 : Keeping Open Source alive"
---

We use open source software all the time. Everything from the browser I am using to even parts of this website functions thanks to free and open source software. We often take open source software for granted and overlook the amount of time and effort that goes into not only creating it, but also maintaining it. <!--more--> 

In class this week we talked about how companies are donating to open source software to keep projects alive. Not only companies, but also everyday people are donating to keep their favorite projects funded. We also discussed how some companies keep their core software public but sell services to enterprises for profit in order to sustain development. I was surprised to learn that many of my favorite tools use this model for example, [Supabase](https://supabase.com/)'s database core is [open source](https://github.com/supabase/supabase), but the company is profitable by offering hosted databases for a fee. 

It is no secret that the community comes together to keep open source alive. From contributors to donors, everyone plays a part in continuing to keep open source software available for the greater good of humanity. That said, I think some companies are profiting far more than they contribute back. However, that is the beauty of open source software, people have the right to do what they want while respecting the license. We need to be more aware of the tools we take for granted and give back to the community through contributions or donations to keep the cycle of open source going. 