---
layout: post
title: "Week 11 : Cathedral vs bazaar model in the age of AI"
---

To start this blog, I want to say I am a bit biased as I use a lot of open-source software daily. However, after reading "The Cathedral and the Bazaar," I have started to think more deeply about software. The Cathedral is the closed-source corporate model, and the Bazaar is the open-source community model. I think that software should be free and open source, but now I have started to question this thinking. <!--more--> 

With the recent supply chain attacks on [Axios](https://www.axios.com/2026/03/31/north-korean-hackers-implicated-in-major-supply-chain-attack) and [liteLLM](https://www.okta.com/blog/threat-intelligence/litellm-supply-chain-attack--an-explainer-for-identity-pros/), I have begun to question if open source is truly secure. In both of these attacks, the use of AI was very evident. Because the source code was open, any "script kiddie" with a coding model can now create sophisticated supply chain attacks. This is significantly more difficult in closed-source projects like Apple's iOS 26, for example. Not to say that iOS 26 is perfectly secure, but it is a lot harder to hack compared to an open-source codebase. In order to hack such a closed-source project, one must have sophisticated knowledge of reverse engineering or low-level systems; whereas, with the help of AI, one can now find bugs and choose not to report them to use them to their advantage. Not only that, but one can easily use AI to create a well-defined and scheduled plan to become a reputable contributor and then, after a while, upload payloads to commits. I am not here to say open source is bad; rather, I would argue open source is generally more secure than closed source. But with the rise of AI, a significant amount of capital is needed to maintain such projects and keep them secure. AI is going to make open source more prominent as more open source version of closed source software show up. Whenever the cost of making something goes down, the production increases. In this case we would see a lot more good quality open source software, but also as such lot more security vulnerability. Massive amounts of investment is needed in the code review / patching process to seedup code review while keeping codes secure.

#### Group work

All of us are moving at different rates when it comes to progress. It's been more than a week and I am still waiting to be assigned the [issue](https://github.com/oppia/oppia/issues/21970) which I commented on. In the meantime, I am working on translating Oppia lessons into Bengali. With this coding blocker, I have been doing quite a few translations and have planned to finish most of the math section translations in the upcoming weeks. This is fun for me as I haven't written much Bengali in 10 years, but it has brought back a lot of old memories and I have been enjoying the process. As for the coding side, I am planning to look for more issues and create the PR anyway to make things easier. 

I am impressed by other groups and their progress. Some of the groups used tools I really like and have used in the past. I am proud of my classmates for contributing to these projects. I have seen most of the groups have at least one PR open. I have also seen a few teams for smaller issues without much activity just creating the PR and then tagging the issue without waiting for it to be assigned. Maybe this is an approach I can take for my shorter PRs.