---
layout: post
title: "Week 5 : Falling in love with FOSS"
---

This week our class presented all the browser extentions we have made. There were a wide variety of extions from the likes of funny to serious productivity boosters. The presentations were done very well and I have personally enjoyed the Q & A session at the end of each presentation. In our presentation the questions gave us new features to work on, something that people eagerly wants. I have personally found the project [tab-down](https://github.com/ossd-s26/tab-down) to be really cool and something that I am willing to use when released. This extension makes it easier to have mutiple tabs open without switching tabs!! 

Presentations are not just about learning about other projects but also about learning how other teams have came up with their idea through the ideation process and how did they handled conflicts. Our group had pretty much a smooth run from the start, me and paul have found a weird connection where we both agreed on most of the topics. To the point where we would try to purposefully try to disagree to see if our decision is the correct one. Working on this project have throught me how crucial it is to have discussions especially when working on open source software development. Nobody can one off just work on something themselves and push a pr out of nowhere expecting it to get merged. It is curcial to communicate and explain ones thought process so that no only everyone can be on the same page but also discover if the solution is the right one or there exist a better one. 

During the class last week we watched a collection of videos from the Open Source Summit of North America (2024). While watching this video something that cought my attention is how dedicated some open source maintainers are to the idea of [FOSS](https://www.gnu.org/philosophy/floss-and-foss.en.html) where the idea of free is freedom. Even when companies takes the project to make money off of it, maintainers stick to the core principles. I found it to be very inspiring where the host have turned down significant potential money to stick to the priciple of FOSS, where anyone can take the source code and do what ever they want with it according to the license. 

