---
layout: post
title: "Week 3 : Journal on building an OSS extension"
---

I have always been a big fan of FireFox. As an avid tinkerer, I like how Firefox gives users the ability to change a lot of default config as they wish. This is unlike browsers like chrome where there is not a about:config that you can go to stop built in trackers. This week was my first time building a browser extension and knew nothing about how to even load an extension to firefox. After spending a few minutes reading the docs, I was suprised by how well written the docs where! I was able to finish building the demo extensions within a few minutes.

What made this learning to build extension over a short period so fun was my teammate [Paul Chan](https://ossd-s26.github.io/Better-Call-Paul-weekly/). Any time I would get stuck we would discuss and try to figure it out together. This was very effective and surprising to me as due to this none of us got stuck an issue for too long. We enjoyed the process of hands of building the tool and discussing ways to improve it at the same time. I also like JavaScript and enjoyed writing code for the extension. My biggest contribution was refining the idea for this extension.  

### Progress 
We have nailed on the idea of building an NYU wallpaper chrome extension. Right now every new tab is a boring monochrome color, we want to change that. Out extension NYUwall would bright a little deligt for every new tab experience. You will be greeted with beautiful NYU wallpapers. So far we have finished building the basic skeleton of the app.

### Problems 
One problem that we are discussing at the moment is that we both have a lots of feature we want to add for example showing quotes along with the wallpaper and various others. We are having a hard time deciding which features would people like the most without making the extension a bloatware.

